# 3.1 Abstract Datagram Network Layer
The cornerstone in building the TON networking protocols is the 
`(TON) Abstract (Datagram) Network Layer`. It enables all nodes to
assume certain "network identities", represented by 256-bit
"abstract network addresses", and communicate (send datagrams to
each other, as a first step) using only these 256-bit network
addresses to identify the sender and the receiver. In particular, one
does not need to worry about IPv4 or IPv6 addresses, UDP port numbers,
and the like; they are hidden by the Abstract Network Layer.

# 3.1.1 Abstract network addresses.
An `abstract network address`, or an `abstract address`, or
just `address` for short, is a 256-bit integer, essentially
equal to a 256-bit ECC public key. This public key can be generated
arbitrarily, thus creating as many different network identities as the
node likes. However, one must know the corresponding _private_
key in order to receive (and decrypt) messages intended for such an
address.

In fact, the address is _not_ the public key itself; instead, it
is a 256-bit hash `(HASH = SHA256)` of a serialized TL-object
(cf.~\ptref{sp:TL}) that can describe several types of public keys and
addresses depending on its constructor (first four bytes). In the
simplest case, this serialized TL-object consists just of a 4-byte
magic number and a 256-bit elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) public
key; in this case, the address will equal the hash of this 36-byte
structure. One might use, however, 2048-bit RSA keys, or any other
scheme of public-key cryptography instead.

When a node learns another node's abstract address, it must also
receive its "preimage" (i.e., the serialized TL-object, the hash of
which equals that abstract address) or else it will not be able to
encrypt and send datagrams to that address.

# 3.1.2 Lower-level networks. UDP implementation.
From the perspective of almost all TON Networking components, the only thing
that exists is a network (the Abstract Datagram Networking Layer) able
to (unreliably) send datagrams from one abstract address to
another. In principle, the Abstract Datagram Networking Layer (ADNL)
can be implemented over different existing network
technologies. However, we are going to implement it over UDP in
IPv4/IPv6 networks (such as the Internet or intranets), with an
optional TCP fallback if UDP is not available.

# 3.1.3 Simplest case of ADNL over UDP.
The simplest case of sending a datagram from a sender's
abstract address to any other abstract address (with known preimage)
can be implemented as follows.

Suppose that the sender somehow knows the IP-address and the UDP port
of the receiver who owns the destination abstract address, and that
both the receiver and the sender use abstract addresses derived from
256-bit ECC public keys.

In this case, the sender simply augments the datagram to be sent by
its ECC signature (done with its private key) and its source address
(or the preimage of the source address, if the receiver is not known
to know that preimage yet). The result is encrypted with the
recipient's public key, embedded into a UDP datagram and sent to the
known IP and port of the recipient. Because the first 256 bits of the
UDP datagram contain the recipient's abstract address, the recipient
can identify which private key should be used to decrypt the remainder
of the datagram. Only after that is the sender's identity revealed.

# 3.1.4 Less secure way, with the sender's address in plaintext.
Sometimes a less secure scheme is sufficient, 
when the recipient's and the sender's addresses are kept
in plaintext in the UDP datagram; the sender's private key and the
recipient's public key are combined together using ECDH (Elliptic
Curve Diffie--Hellman) to generate a 256-bit shared secret, which is
used afterwards, along with a random 256-bit nonce also included in
the unencrypted part, to derive AES keys used for encryption. The
integrity may be provided, for instance, by concatenating the hash of
the original plaintext data to the plaintext before encryption.

This approach has the advantage that, if more than one datagram is
expected to be exchanged between the two addresses, the shared secret
can be computed only once and then cached; then slower elliptic curve
operations will no longer be required for encrypting or decrypting the
next datagrams.

# 3.1.5 Channels and channel identifiers.
In the simplest case, the first 256 bits of a UDP
datagram carrying an embedded TON ADNL datagram will be equal to the
recipient's address. However, in general they constitute a {\em
  channel identifier}. There are different types of channels. Some of
them are point-to-point; they are created by two parties who wish to
exchange a lot of data in the future and generate a shared secret by
exchanging several packets encrypted as described
in~\ptref{sp:net.simple.dg} or~\ptref{sp:net.simplest.dg}, by running
classical or elliptic curve Diffie--Hellman (if extra security is
required), or simply by one party generating a random shared secret
and sending it to the other party.

After that, a channel identifier is derived from the shared secret
combined with some additional data (such as the sender's and
recipient's addresses), for instance by hashing, and that identifier
is used as the first 256 bits of UDP datagrams carrying data encrypted
with the aid of that shared secret.

# 3.1.6 Channel as a tunnel identifier.
In general, a ``channel'', or ``channel identifier'' simply selects a
way of processing an inbound UDP datagram, known to the receiver. If
the channel is the receiver's abstract address, the processing is done
as outlined in~\ptref{sp:net.simple.dg} or \ptref{sp:net.simplest.dg};
if the channel is an established point-to-point channel discussed
in~\ptref{sp:net.channels}, the processing consists in decrypting the
datagram with the aid of the shared secret as explained in {\em
  loc.~cit.}, and so on.

In particular, a channel identifier can actually select a ``tunnel'',
when the immediate recipient simply forwards the received message to
somebody else---the actual recipient or another proxy. Some encryption
or decryption steps (reminiscent of ``onion routing'' \cite{Onion} or
even ``garlic
routing''\footnote{\url{https://geti2p.net/en/docs/how/garlic-routing}})
might be done along the way, and another channel identifier might be
used for re-encrypted forwarded packets (for example, a peer-to-peer
channel could be employed to forward the packet to the next recipient
on the path).

In this way, some support for ``tunneling'' and
``proxying''---somewhat similar to that provided by the TOR or $I^2P$
projects---can be added on the level of the TON Abstract Datagram
Network Layer, without affecting the functionality of all higher-level
TON network protocols, which would be agnostic of such an
addition. This opportunity is exploited by the {\em TON Proxy\/}
service (cf.~\ptref{sp:ex.ton.proxy}).

# 3.1.7 Zero channel and the bootstrap problem.
Normally, a TON ADNL node will have some ``neighbor table'', 
containing information about other known nodes, such as their
abstract addresses and their preimages (i.e., public keys) and their
IP addresses and UDP ports. Then it will gradually extend this table
by using information learned from these known nodes as answers to
special queries, and sometimes prune obsolete records.

However, when a TON ADNL node just starts up, it may happen that it
does not know any other node, and can learn only the IP address and
UDP port of a node, but not its abstract address. This happens, for
example, if a light client is not able to access any of the previously
cached nodes and any nodes hardcoded into the software, and must ask
the user to enter an IP address or a DNS domain of a node, to be
resolved through DNS.

In this case, the node will send packets to a special ``zero channel''
of the node in question. This does not require knowledge of the
recipient's public key (but the message should still contain the
sender's identity and signature), so the message is transferred
without encryption.  It should be normally used only to obtain an
identity (maybe a one-time identity created especially for this
purpose) of the receiver, and then to start communicating in a safer
way.

Once at least one node is known, it is easy to populate the ``neighbor
table'' and ``routing table'' by more entries, learning them from
answers to special queries sent to the already known nodes.

Not all nodes are required to process datagrams sent to the zero
channel, but those used to bootstrap light clients should support this
feature.

# 3.1.8 TCP-like stream protocol over ADNL.
The ADNL, being an unreliable (small-size) datagram protocol based on 256-bit
abstract addresses, can be used as a base for more sophisticated
network protocols. One can build, for example, a TCP-like stream
protocol, using ADNL as an abstract replacement for IP. However, most
components of the TON Project do not need such a stream protocol.

# 3.1.9 RLDP, or Reliable Large Datagram Protocol over ADNL.
A reliable arbitrary-size datagram protocol built upon the ADNL, 
called RLDP, is used instead of a TCP-like protocol. 
This reliable datagram protocol can be employed, for instance,
to send RPC queries to remote hosts and receive answers from
them (cf.~\ptref{sp:pure.net.serv}).
